[Music]
okay
is this statement correct or bogus if
someone asked you to show where North is
on a map you would instinctively point
up right but would you believe it wasn't
always that way and are the continents
really moving because I don't feel any
shifting under my feet hey let's play a
little game of true or false I've got a
sweet bonus for you at the end 2-1 Mount
Everest is the highest summit on the
planet Falls Everest stands a proud and
impressive champion at just over 29,000
feet above sea level but it's not the
closest point to space because our
planet isn't perfectly round but more of
a squashed sphere Mountains closer to
the equator get some extra elevation
this is how Chimborazo in Ecuador is the
closest you can get to the Sun and stars
and if you dive into the Pacific you'll
find a giant that's 3,000 feet taller
than Everest above sea level though
Mauna Kea is just thirteen thousand
eight hundred feet tall the rest is
hidden underwater speaking of things
hiding in the ocean - the Mariana Trench
could fit Everest in it completely true
the deepest place on this planet could
easily host Everest and still have room
for another decently sized 7,000 foot
tall mountain 3 a sea must have a coast
Falls the Sargasso Sea is nothing like a
regular vacation destination it has no
coasts whatsoever it's surrounded by
four ocean currents the Gulf Stream in
the West the North Atlantic Current in
the North the canary current in the east
and the North Atlantic equatorial
current in the South that means its
borders are always shifting for the
continents are constantly moving
true and they're doing it at the same
speed your fingernails are growing as a
result the Pacific Ocean is shrinking by
about an inch a year so Asia and North
America are getting closer every year
yay shorter flights but Europe is
drifting away as the Atlantic widens
longer trips five Iceland is becoming
larger each year true and it's a natural
process the land of geysers is also the
place where the Eurasian and North
American tectonic plates mate the gap
between them is growing by nearly two
inches a year six the African continent
since on all four hemispheres true
Africa is the only continent that spans
over the northern southern eastern and
western hemispheres I mean it does cover
12 million square miles
I'd expect at least a few hemispheres in
there both the Prime Meridian and the
equator cross it and that's unique to
seven the people on earth are evenly
spread false 90% of the entire
population that's around 7 billion out
of 7 point 7 billion people live in the
northern hemisphere before you imagine
igloos polar bears and eternal winter
the North actually includes North
America Europe most of Africa and Asia
and even some parts of South America 8
the earth is extremely densely populated
Falls if we all squeezed up like
residents in any major city we need much
less room than the entire planet Earth
250,000 square miles would do that means
we could all fit into the state of Texas
and still have some room to spare but
the price of apartments in Houston and
Dallas would skyrocket 9 there's plenty
of drinkable water here on the blue
planet
bawls 71% of the earth might be covered
by water but it's not the kind you drink
first thing in the morning only two and
a half percent of that water is fresh
and only 1% is available to drink the
rest make up glaciers and snow fields
salty sea water has its own benefits
though and humanity is always finding
innovative ways to use it from new
technologies to the beauty industry 10
the Sahara Desert is always hot boss
most people think of it as the driest
and one of the hottest places on earth
but it does get snow in the last 40
years it's happened three times already
so it does get chilly sometimes mostly
during long winter nights
speaking of unexpected places where you
can find snow 11 it snows in Hawaii true
Hawaii's volcanoes mauna kea remember
what it's famous for mono Lua and
Haleakala all rise above 10,000 feet
this altitude is high enough to get a
good amount of the fluffy white stuff
during winter 12 the North Pole is the
coldest place on earth Falls the South
Pole is it's because the north ball sits
on floating chunks of ice that ice is
thin enough to let the heat coming from
the Arctic Ocean get through antarctica
home to the South Pole is a massive
continent that doesn't have such a
natural heater the average winter
temperatures there is minus 76 degrees
compared to minus 40 degrees in the
North 13 the North is always up
[Music]
Klaus old Egyptian Maps had south as up
because that's where they live in
medieval times north was actually east
on many maps because that's where the
Sun rises people heading to the Americas
held maps with West where you'd expect
north to be today Ptolemy was the first
to put north on top of a global map but
that could be because he didn't have
much information on the southern
hemisphere
centuries later people discovered
there's a magnetic north pole where a
compass needle will point straight down
that's only possible at the geographic
North Pole but technically you can mark
that point anywhere on the map not just
the very top especially now that the
magnetic north pole is moving who knows
where the north might end up centuries
from now 14 you're walking on gold every
day true the Earth's core is home to
some expensive substances including
diamonds and gold if you took all the
gold out and spread it on the surface it
would be enough to cover the entire
planet in a two-foot thick layer up to
your needs
that's an expensive highway 15 there are
no more real isolated areas on this
planet balls to words
point Nemo Nemo translates from Latin as
no one and it's the perfect name for a
place so remote from any land 1000 miles
in any direction that astronauts are the
closest humans to it when the
International Space Station is flying
over point Nemo the crew is only 260
miles away from it sixteen two people
can be 43 miles yet 24 hours apart
[Music]
in 2011 Samoa just skipped December 30th
and became three hours ahead of Sydney
Australia the nearest large business
center
it used to be 21 hours behind it so now
Samoa and American Samoa are a mere of
43 miles yet a whole 24 hours apart 17 a
journey down the Mississippi River takes
90 days true that is if you're a droplet
of water three months is what it takes
to cover the distance of almost 2,000
350 miles from Lake Itasca in northern
Minnesota to the Gulf of Mexico now
would you want to go on that journey let
me know down in the comments 18 Canada
has the highest concentration of lakes
true over half of all the natural lakes
on earth are in the great white north
that's over 30 thousand of those natural
pools covering nine percent of the
country's territory 19 Kentucky has the
longest cave in the world true if you
ever visit Mammoth Cave National Park
you'll only get a sneak peek at the
largest cave system on the planet 400
miles have already been officially
explored and half as much is believed to
still be waiting underground 20 the
poles are in all time zones at the same
time true if someone asks you what time
it is during a trip to either the North
or the South Pole you can never give
them the right answer that's because all
the longitudinal lines that divide one
time zone from another come together
here technically you could use any time
but most people stick to their country's
research station zone and here's a bonus
I enjoyed this journey around the globe
with you so much that I'd like to show
you something we'll need to take a quick
trip down to the Great Barrier Reef
here it is a heart-shaped reef to show
how much I appreciate you hey if you
learned something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life